# An Anlysis of Kickstarter Campaigns

## 1. Overview of Project:

### In this project Louise the playwright hired me to help inform her campaign to raise $10,000 for her play Fever. I analyzed past crowdfunding results to see what factors make them successful so Louise can try and replicate those in her campaign. As Louise launched her campaign, she found success within a short period time and was close to her goal. She tasked me with analyzing other campaign's outcomes based on their launch dates and fundraising goals. Using this data, she will be able to gauge whether her campaign's success was a fluke or if it followed the patterns that others did. She can use this to retrospect on her campaign methods and inform the timing of future crowdsourcing campaigns. 

## 2. Analysis and Challenges:
Analysis: 
I first took a look at theater outcomes by their launch date. Using the Kickstarter spreadsheet, I developed a pivot table showing the number of successful, failed, and canceled campaigns by month created. I filtered this by theater to maintain relevance for Louise.

 ### I had issues with the countifs() function in the Outcomes Based on Goals deliverable. I initially was unable to get any results from the function and then I realized that I was misspelling successful, failed, and canceled. I realized it was much easier if I just copy pasted the phrases from the Kickstarter sheet to ensure there weren't any typos. After figuring that out, I was unable to get my graph to look like the example in the assignment information. Even after filtering the Kickstarter sheet and counting manually, the percentages on my sheet were not matching up to the example. I then thought that I had somehow removed some values at some point. I re-downloaded the file and copied over those values for the outcomes, goals, and subcategory columns. I had the same results. I am still quite perplexed why I got such a different chart but that proved to be quite the challenge for me. 

## 3. Results

 ### There appeared to be peaks for both successes and failures in the summer months but the successful campaigns hit an all time high in May and June for the theater group. The overall failure rate was 36% yet they went down to 31% and 32% in May and June respectively. The highest failure rates were in the winter months, with a 47% failure rate in December. From this, I would inform my client that launching a crowdsourcing campaign in May or June appears to be more advantageous than perhaps December or January. 
 ### (I'm doing this analysis based on the chart shown in the assignment since I can't get mine to look like that)
 ![Outcomes vs. Goals] (kickstarter-analysis/Outcomes_vs_Goals.png)
 ### When analyzing the outcomes based on the fundraising goal given the subcategory was plays, it appears to be somewhat of a mixed bag at times. It is clear that from $0-$29,999 the percentage successful decreases as the dollar amount increases. This could be due to a few things. The most likely answer is that it is not that hard to raise $1,000 and it is far harder to raise up to the $30,000 amount. What is interesting is that success rate makes a resurgence from $30,000-$40,000 before going back down again. This could be due to the seriousness of the fundraisers in the 30-40 thousand range. The changing nature of success rates could also be due to the small sample size. There are only 800 campaigns that fit the criteria of this chart and that is not the best sample size given the granularity of the analysis.
 ### I would be interested in taking a further look at the failure and success rates by both fundraising goal and launch date. This would show us whether or not these factors actually make a difference. It would also be particularly compelling to see a longer period of time to add to the sample size. An alternate visualization to analyze would be a line chart of percentage of successful campaigns with Parent Category or Subcategory as the columns. 
